Web Api in VS code , using .net Core
1) Install .Net core from MS site.
2) Once it is installed , can check the ver in cmd dotnet --version
3) If we are able to see the version , we need to create the folder for the application 
and create the solution 
dotnet new sln  :- this cmd will create new sln
4)Next step was to create the web api project 
dotnet new webapi -o API  :- here -o is the output and "API" is name of the project
5)Next step is to add Solution to the API 
dotnet sln add API

---------------------------
RUN .NET FROM CMD PROMPT

to run the .Net project we need to run the cmd as

dotnet run (Make sure we are in the project folder before this)


We need to add cert to the make the dev trust 

dotnet dev-certs https --trust

-----------

SETTING THE EF IN VS CODE

in the extension of vs code intall the nuget gallery 
Once installed , we can go to the nuget gallery and installe the respective entity frame work.

in this case it was sql lite so i have installed the below package .
Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite   :- (Note :- to add to select API.csproj, this will add the config details in the API.csproj file) 


Once we did this we need to set the connection string in startup.cs file 
Note :- here we can also set the dependencies injection in the ConfigureServices method.

Once we have table and connection in place , in this case we need to do the migration in or sqllite or sql .
to check the latest package go to nuget.org search for dotnet-ef , select the right version and copy the path from there.

Note in order to do the migration we need to stop running the app.

CMD for migration is dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate -o Data/Migrations
where InitialCreate is the name.

Create DB 

once we have run the above cmd we need to create the DB

run the cmd in vs terminal dotnet ef database update

As we are using sqlite in our case , we can go extension and add sqlite package to see the data.

once you have installed the package you can open the pallet ,
and select sqlite : open database cmd . and select dattingapp.db(Name given for creating connection string).





